PRE FATORY NOTE S.

 

I.

Virgil’s AEneid has been taught] in ‘the schools Withouh
interruptim] for eighteen centurias. Seventy generations of
school-boys have been initiated into classical lore by Arma
virumque ccmo. And still the inter-esi: in the grand old epie
abates not a whit. The signs of the prophesied desuetude of
classical sbudy are not very apparenb. In this so-called prac-
tical age a few literary demagogues seh a bain for populariby

by deerying with affected inmortunity the study of dead
languages, but Latin and Greek s‘cssl hold if not the first, ab

least a foremost place in ‘ohe curriculum of a liberal education.
These languages are dead only to those who are dead to hbe
humanizing influences and the glowing inspiration of “thoughts
that breabhe and words that burn '’ on almost every page of
Virgil, of Homer, of Tully, of Demosthenes. Industrial edu-
cation and even scientific edueation may negleoss the ancienf,
ehxssies, bu'c a, liberal eduoa‘cion never can. No unam-'nain
sound was that: uttered ⁴01oe other day by Lord Chief J usffice
Coleridge before the studente of Yale. He zaid :——“I must
publicly arque here that as a lawyer ancl a juclqe I most
beaw-cily am in favour of the cleas-sies. I leave done many foolish
tlzinys in my past life, but I do owe to the ΙιοαενδἸ spent most,
wisely amona the classics me position I now occupy, I have
made it a religion, as sar as I could, never to lec α day pass
without spenclingy some time os it upon ‘my Latin ancl Greek, and
I heartily believe that ‘my success uras material& added by those

classics which have been tlte study os my life.'’
For the nexfi four years ‘che story of AEneas and Dido is to

be read in our High Schools and collegiata Insbitutes. The

