82 nou-s.

(Notice the asyndeton, or absence of a connect1ve between ea·-
plomre and quaerere.)

Aeeesserit= subjunctive of indirect question.

Nam eto. The cause of the hero’s doubt is given.

Scan this verse (308), notioing the metrieal peculiarity in videt.

Inculta: the plural adj. referring to two nouns—-locos and
oras—of different genders is neuter as the nouns do not repre.
sent persons or sentient beings.

Exacta, ‘what has been learned.'

310. In convexo nemorum, The adJ. convexus mea-ns
‘arched’‚-either ‘concave' or ‘oonvexss So the noun may con-
tain either notion. The phrase probably means, ‘in a deep recess
among the trees ’ (which grow on the eliffs of the bay and over-
hang the waters below). Anthon with his customary dogmatista
sayS‚—“ They who make conveoeo here equivalent to concavo and
signifying merely ‘a recess within the grove’ mistake entirely
the sense of the passage.’' He translates the phrase, ‘with
jutting woods projecting over.’ Now, most editors make the
passage signify not merely ‘ a recess within the grove’, but that,
and something more,—viz. the overhanging woods, which the
context plainly shows must be implied. Light is thrown on
these two verses by vv. 229, 230, Bk. HL, which are almost
identical; in secessu lonyo taking the place of in convexo
nemorum.

311. Horrentibus= either (1» ‘ dark'‚ or (2) ‘projs cting.’

312. Comitatus: the part. here has a passive signification
although the verb is a deponent.

Achate ι a sort of abl. of means.

313. Bina hastilia ε the distributive is often used by the
poets instead of the cardinal numerals where pairs or sets are
spoken of.

crispans: either (1) ‘ brandishing', or (2) ⁸ grasping.'

Lato ferro ³ tho reference is to the head oithe spear. The
ablative is descriptive.

314. Cui ἒ depending on obvia.

